src/pages/articles/blogging_with_astro.mdx, before:

---
layout: ../../layouts/MarkdownArticleLayout.astro
title: Blogging with Astro
author: Swaana Snorradottir
pubDate: 2023-02-12
tags: ["blogging"]
---

# Blogging with Astro

This is where I may start writing about my journey to blog with Astro.

The very first thing I notice is that I will need a lot of boiler plate before my site looks nice. This was not the
case with VitePress. However, I also realize that this is due to the large amount of flexibility which is less
evident in VitePress. Although, they do have a theming engine and are intending to ship more features it is simply
more stripped down at the time of writing this post.

With Astro I expect to need to write more initially, but I also expect to have more control and flexibility which at
this point I still quite like. Or at leas, I hope that I will thank myself for this at some point.

## Add MDX support
Shortly after beginning with Astro I decided I would probably prefer to use markdown files as my pages will be heavy
on content. Adding support for it in Astro was super easy and worked right away. At this point I also noticed the
large amount of plugins for Astro.

## Styling with Tailwind
Although I'm still not 100% convinced of Tailwind I do think it will kickstart this website for me in the beginning.
As my design will probably take shape later on I suspect that I will navigate away from Tailwind. I find Tailwind to
add too much bloating to my templates due to the verboseness of all the utility classes. The way to mitigate that is
by using wrapper components. Which I may end up doing, but for now, Tailwind should suit my purpose.

So, just after I added Tailwind I see all style removed and I remembered that with Tailwind and MDX I have to start
telling my IDE all the styling I need. This will be too much work. I want the pages to be very small footprint and
this style reset and then full rewrite is actually too much effort. I'm therefore abandoning Tailwind again. I'll
just write some css myself.

## Issues with Webstorm
Somewhere during my career I started using Webstorm as an IDE, and now I'm attached. I like this IDE very much and I
know it well so my speed in development is optimal in this IDE. Later Visual Code came along and is blazingly
popular, but I haven't been able to adopt it.

When starting in Astro on Webstorm I noticed that it's not supporting Astro. After a little bit of digging

When I started the local dev the filewatcher would go off on any change in the .idea folder. As this folder is IDE
specific it's unnecessary for the watcher to also respond to these changes. After a little bit of Googling I found
a suggestion to turn this off in the `vite.server.watch.ignored` configuration.

```javascript
// astro.config.mjs
export default defineConfig({
  vite: {
    server: {
      watch: {
        ignored: ['**/.idea/*']
      }
    }
  }
})
```

Commit message:

Tutorial done. Next step: make it my own

src/pages/articles/blogging_with_astro.mdx, after:

---
layout: ../../layouts/MarkdownArticleLayout.astro
title: Blogging with Astro
author: Swaana Snorradottir
pubDate: 2023-02-12
tags: ["blogging"]
---

# Blogging with Astro

This is where I may start writing about my journey to blog with Astro.

The very first thing I notice is that I will need a lot of boiler plate before my site looks nice. This was not the
case with VitePress. However, I also realize that this is due to the large amount of flexibility which is less
evident in VitePress. Although, they do have a theming engine and are intending to ship more features it is simply
more stripped down at the time of writing this post.

With Astro I expect to need to write more initially, but I also expect to have more control and flexibility which at
this point I still quite like. Or at leas, I hope that I will thank myself for this at some point.

## Follow the tutorial on Astro docs
It is really good.

## Add MDX support
Shortly after beginning with Astro I decided I would probably prefer to use markdown files as my pages will be heavy
on content. Adding support for it in Astro was super easy and worked right away. At this point I also noticed the
large amount of plugins for Astro.

## Styling with Tailwind
Although I'm still not 100% convinced of Tailwind I do think it will kickstart this website for me in the beginning.
As my design will probably take shape later on I suspect that I will navigate away from Tailwind. I find Tailwind to
add too much bloating to my templates due to the verboseness of all the utility classes. The way to mitigate that is
by using wrapper components. Which I may end up doing, but for now, Tailwind should suit my purpose.

So, just after I added Tailwind I see all style removed and I remembered that with Tailwind and MDX I have to start
telling my IDE all the styling I need. This will be too much work. I want the pages to be very small footprint and
this style reset and then full rewrite is actually too much effort. I'm therefore abandoning Tailwind again. I'll
just write some css myself.

## Issues with Webstorm
Somewhere during my career I started using Webstorm as an IDE, and now I'm attached. I like this IDE very much and I
know it well so my speed in development is optimal in this IDE. Later Visual Code came along and is blazingly
popular, but I haven't been able to adopt it.

When starting in Astro on Webstorm I noticed that it's not supporting Astro. After a little bit of digging

When I started the local dev the filewatcher would go off on any change in the .idea folder. As this folder is IDE
specific it's unnecessary for the watcher to also respond to these changes. After a little bit of Googling I found
a suggestion to turn this off in the `vite.server.watch.ignored` configuration.

```javascript
// astro.config.mjs
export default defineConfig({
  vite: {
    server: {
      watch: {
        ignored: ['**/.idea/*']
      }
    }
  }
})
```
